A fabrication process employing the use of ScAlN as an etch mask is disclosed.
The ScAlN etch mask is chemically nonvolatile in fluorine-based etch chemistries and has a low sputter yield, resulting in greater etch mask selectivity and reduced surface roughness for silicon and other semiconductor materials.
The ScAlN etch mask has an etch mask selectivity of greater than 200,000:1 relative to silicon compared to an etch mask selectivity of less than 40,000:1 for a prior art AlN etch mask relative to silicon.
Further, due to reduced sputtering of the ScAlN etch mask, and thus reduced micromasking, the ScAlN etch mask yielded a surface roughness of 0.6 μm compared to a surface roughness of 2.8 μm for an AlN etch mask.
The present disclosure relates to a contamination controlled semiconductor processing system.
The contamination controlled semiconductor processing system includes a processing chamber, a contamination detection system, and a contamination removal system.
The processing chamber is configured to process a wafer.
The contamination detection system is configured to determine whether a contamination level on a surface of the door is greater than a baseline level.
The contamination removal system is configured to remove contaminants from the surface of the door in response to the contamination level being greater than the baseline level.
Apparatus and methods are disclosed for sample preparation, suitable for online or offline use with multilayer samples.
Ion beam technology is leveraged to provide rapid, accurate delayering with etch stops at a succession of target layers.
In one aspect, a trench is milled around a region of interest (ROI), and a conductive coating is developed on an inner sidewall.
Thereby, reliable conducting paths are formed between intermediate layers within the ROI and a base layer, and stray current paths extending outside the ROI are eliminated, providing better quality etch progress monitoring, during subsequent etching, from body or scattered currents.
Ion beam assisted gas etching provides rapid delayering with etch stops at target polysilicon layers.
Uniform etching at deep layers can be achieved.
Variations and results are disclosed..
A bonding device includes a flexible platen disposed between an upper platen assembly (9) and a transmission device and within a vacuum chamber (6).
The flexible platen can expand to apply a downward pressure to the upper platen assembly (9) connected thereto.
Under the effect of the pressure, the upper platen assembly (9) slowly moves downward until the upper platen assembly (9) itself and a lower platen assembly (7) respectively come into tight contact with objects to be bonded.
After that, the flexible platen continues exerting the downward pressure on the upper platen assembly (9).
In this way, the pressure applied by the upper platen assembly (9) to the objects to be bonded is uniform.
Meanwhile, because of slow expansion of the flexible platen, the uniform pressure is applied slowly by the upper platen assembly (9)..
Aluminum oxide films characterized by a dielectric constant (k) of less than about 7 (such as between about 4-6) and having a density of at least about 2.5 g/cm3 (such as about 3.0-3.2 g/cm3) are deposited on partially fabricated semiconductor devices over both metal and dielectric to serve as etch stop layers.
The films are deposited using a deposition method that does not lead to oxidative damage of the metal.
The deposition involves reacting an aluminum-containing precursor (e.g., a trialkylaluminum) with an alcohol and/or aluminum alkoxide.
In one implementation the method involves flowing trimethylaluminum to the process chamber housing a substrate having an exposed metal and dielectric layers; purging and/or evacuating the process chamber; flowing t-butanol to the process chamber and allowing it to react with trimethylaluminum to form an aluminum oxide film and repeating the process steps until the film of desired thickness is formed.
Methods, systems, and apparatuses are described for integrated circuit controlled ejection system (ICCES) for massively parallel integrated circuit assembly (MPICA).
A unique Integrated Circuit (IC) die ejection head assembly system is described, which utilizes Three-Dimensional (3D) printing to achieve very high resolution manufacturing to meet the precision tolerances required for very small IC die sizes.
A reactor for processing substrates and methods for manufacturing and using the reactor are disclosed.
Specifically, the reactor can include a material that forms gas compounds.
The gas compounds are then easily removed from the reactor, thus reducing or avoiding contamination of the substrates in the reactor that would otherwise arise.
Techniques for forming nanoribbon or bulk graphene-based SPR sensors are provided.
In one aspect, a method of forming a graphene-based SPR sensor is provided which includes the steps of: depositing graphene onto a substrate, wherein the substrate comprises a dielectric layer on a conductive layer, and wherein the graphene is deposited onto the dielectric layer; and patterning the graphene into multiple, evenly spaced graphene strips, wherein each of the graphene strips has a width of from about 50 nanometers to about 5 micrometers, and ranges therebetween, and wherein the graphene strips are separated from one another by a distance of from about 5 nanometers to about 50 micrometers, and ranges therebetween.
Alternatively, bulk graphene may be employed and the dielectric layer is used to form periodic regions of differing permittivity.
A testing apparatus and method of analyzing a sample using the present SPR sensors are also provided..
Embodiments disclosed herein include an abatement system for abating compounds produced in semiconductor processes.
The abatement system includes an exhaust cooling apparatus located downstream of a plasma source.
The exhaust cooling apparatus includes at least one cooling plate a device for introducing turbulence to the exhaust flowing within the exhaust cooling apparatus.
The device may be a plurality of fins, a cylinder with a curved top portion, or a diffuser with angled blades.
The turbulent flow of the exhaust within the exhaust cooling apparatus causes particles to drop out of the exhaust, minimizing particles forming in equipment downstream of the exhaust cooling apparatus..
Provided are a group III nitride composite substrate having a low sheet resistance and produced with a high yield, and a method for manufacturing the same, as well as a method for manufacturing a group III nitride semiconductor device using the group III nitride composite substrate.
A group III nitride composite substrate includes a group III nitride film and a support substrate formed from a material different in chemical composition from the group III nitride film.
The group III nitride film is joined to the support substrate in one of a direct manner and an indirect manner.
The group III nitride film has a thickness of 10 μm or more.
A sheet resistance of a group III-nitride-film-side main surface is 200 Ω/sq or less..
Methods and apparatus for etching a high aspect ratio feature in a stack on a substrate are provided.
The feature may be formed in the process of forming a 3D NAND device.
Typically, the stack includes alternating layers of material such as silicon oxide and silicon nitride or silicon oxide and polysilicon.
WF6 is provided in the etch chemistry, which substantially reduces or eliminates problematic sidewall notching.
Advantageously, this improvement in sidewall notching does not introduce other tradeoffs such as increased bowing, decreased selectivity, increased capping, or decreased etch rate..
The disclosed technology relates to a semiconductor integrated circuit that comprises a semiconductor device which has a port to be protected from Plasma-Induced Damage due to electric charge that may accumulate at the port during a plasma-processing step, and a protection circuit that is provided to the integrated circuit.
In one aspect, the protection circuit comprises a discharge path, a control terminal, and a plasma pick-up antenna connected to the control terminal.
The protection circuit further comprises a bipolar transistor which has a base connected to the control terminal.
Such protection circuit is much more efficient in allowing charge transfer from the device port to a reference voltage terminal..
Embodiments of apparatus for providing radiant energy in the form of electromagnetic radiation are provided herein.
In some embodiments a radiation source for electromagnetic radiation includes a tubular body formed from a material transparent to electromagnetic radiation; a filament disposed within the tubular body; and a reflective coating disposed on a portion of the tubular body to form a reflective portion, wherein the reflective portion is configured to minimize reflection of electromagnetic radiation emanating from the filament during use back to the filament..
According to the present invention, it is possible to provide a cleaning solution which removes a photoresist on a surface of a semiconductor element having a low dielectric constant film (a low-k film) and a material that contains 10 atom % or more of tungsten, wherein the cleaning solution contains 0.001-5 mass % of an alkaline earth metal compound, 0.1-30 mass % of an inorganic alkali and/or an organic alkali, and water..
A method (and structure) includes performing an initial partial anneal of a metal interconnect overburden layer for semiconductor devices being fabricated on a chip on a semiconductor wafer.
Orientation of an early recrystallizing grain at a specific location on a top surface of the metal overburden layer is determined, as implemented and controlled by a processor on a computer.
A determination is made whether the orientation of the early recrystallizing grain is desirable or undesirable..
Systems and methods for imprinting formable material on a substrate with a template.
Illuminate the formable material with a gelling radiation distribution pattern.
The gelling radiation distribution pattern has a gelling dosage that that varies from a minimum gelling dosage at each of a plurality of corners of a boundary edge to a peak gelling dosage at a center of each of the boundary edges..
A processing system and platform for improving both the microscopic and macroscopic uniformity of materials during etching is disclosed herein.
These improvements may be accomplished through the formation and dissolution of thin, self-limiting layers on the material surface by the use of wet atomic layer etching (ALE) techniques.
For etching of polycrystalline materials, these self-limiting reactions can be used to prevent this roughening of the surface during etching.
Thus, as disclosed herein, a wet ALE process uses sequential, self-limiting reactions to first modify the surface layer of a material and then selectively remove the modified layer..
An optical device includes a gallium and nitrogen containing substrate comprising a surface region configured in a (20-2-1) orientation, a (30-3-1) orientation, or a (30-31) orientation, within +/−10 degrees toward c-plane and/or a-plane from the orientation.
Optical devices having quantum well regions overly the surface region are also disclosed..
Use of a chemical mechanical polishing (CMP) composition (Q) for chemical mechanical polishing of a substrate (S) comprising (i) cobalt and/or (ii) a cobalt alloy and (iii) Ti N and/or TaN, wherein the CMP composition (Q) comprises (E) Inorganic particles (F) at least one organic compound comprising an amino-group and an acid group (Y), wherein said compound comprises n amino groups and at least n+1 acidic protons, wherein n is a integer≥1.
(G) at least one oxidizer in an amount of from 0.2 to 2.5 wt.-% based on the total weight of the respective CMP composition, (H) an aqueous medium wherein the CMP composition (Q) has a pH of more than 6 and less than 9..
There is provided a method for implementing and regulating patterning of a graphene film by ultraviolet photo-oxidation, including: implementing patterning of a graphene film micron structure pattern by using a xenon lamp excimer ultraviolet photo-oxidation vacuum apparatus and a hard mask; 2: controlling oxygen excitons, by applying a non-uniform magnetic field on the surface of the graphene film in a vertical direction, to move toward the graphene film in a direction of a magnetic field, so as to enhance the directivity of etching to the graphene film in the vertical direction, thereby improving patterning quality of the graphene film with micron-structure; and (3) by adjusting the intensity and direction of the magnetic field moving direction of the oxygen excitons is controlled, and the shape of the etched pattern structure of the graphene film is controlled, and thus controlling the patterning of the graphene film may be achieved..
In a mask pattern forming method, a resist film is formed over a thin film, the resist film is processed into resist patterns having a predetermined pitch by photolithography, slimming of the resist patterns is performed, and an oxide film is formed on the thin film and the resist patterns after an end of the slimming step in a film deposition apparatus by supplying a source gas and an oxygen radical or an oxygen-containing gas.
In the mask pattern forming method, the slimming and the oxide film forming are continuously performed in the film deposition apparatus..
Etching stop which is caused by a metal released from a metal-containing mask can be avoided.
A plasma etching method includes a protective film forming process of forming a protective film on a metal-containing film, which is formed on an etching target film and provided with a preset opening pattern, by a first processing gas; and an etching process of etching the etching target film by plasma generated from a second processing gas while using, as a mask, the metal-containing film on which the protective film is formed..
Metal-containing film etchant compositions may include hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), a phosphoric acid compound, a heterocyclic organic amine compound including at least one heteroatom in a ring, and water.
Manufacturing methods of an integrated circuit (IC) may include performing a dry etch process on a conductive structure including a metal nitride film and a metal film to form a conductive pattern intermediate product and performing a wet etch process on the conductive pattern intermediate product using an etching atmosphere providing a higher etch selectivity with respect to the metal nitride film than the metal film.
The etching atmosphere may include an etchant composition including hydrogen peroxide, a phosphoric acid compound, a heterocyclic organic amine compound including at least one heteroatom in a ring, and water..
A method of manufacturing a display panel substrate includes a transparent conductive film formation step of forming a transparent conductive film on a flattening film that covers a switching component disposed on a substrate, a metallic film formation step of forming a metallic film so as to cover the transparent conductive film after the transparent conductive film formation step, a line formation step of forming a line by etching the metallic film after the metallic film formation step, and a transparent electrode formation step of forming a transparent electrode that is connected to the line by etching the transparent conductive film after the wire formation step..
A method for etching a ruthenium film includes a first step of etching the ruthenium film by plasma processing using oxygen-containing gas, and a second step of etching the ruthenium film by plasma processing using chlorine-containing gas.
The first step and the second step are alternately performed.
In the first step and the second step, the ruthenium film is etched at a target control temperature for a target processing time that are determined based on a pre-obtained relation between an etching amount per one cycle including the first step and the second step as a set, a control temperature of the ruthenium film, and processing times of each of the first step and the second step..
A method for manufacturing a dielectric layer includes forming a first dielectric film over a substrate.
A first porogen is deposited over the first dielectric film.
A second dielectric film is formed on and in contact with the first dielectric film and the first porogen.
The first porogen is removed..
A technique enables etching of a film on a substrate with reduced etching on the surface of a side wall.
An etching method includes forming a protective layer on a surface of a side wall defining a recess in a substrate.
The protective layer contains sulfur atoms.
The etching method further includes etching a film on the substrate to increase a depth of the recess after forming the protective layer..
There is provided a film forming method including: an etching step of etching a portion of a base film to reduce a film thickness of the base film by intermittently supplying a tungsten chloride gas into a processing container while performing a purging step in the course of the intermittent supply of the tungsten chloride gas, wherein the processing container accommodates a substrate, and the base film is formed on a surface of the substrate; and a film forming step of forming a tungsten film on the base film by alternately supplying the tungsten chloride gas and a reducing gas for reducing the tungsten chloride gas into the processing container while performing the purging step in the course of the alternate supply of the tungsten chloride gas and the reducing gas, wherein the film forming step occurs after the etching step..
The present invention relates to a method and an apparatus for polishing a surface of a substrate having a film whose thickness varies along a circumferential direction of the substrate.
The polishing method includes: obtaining a film-thickness distribution in a circumferential direction of a substrate (W); determining a first area having a maximum or minimum film thickness based on the film-thickness distribution; rotating a polishing table (3) holding a polishing pad (2); pressing a surface of the substrate (W) against the polishing pad (2) while rotating the substrate by a polishing head (1); and polishing the first area at a removal rate different from that of a second area in the surface of the substrate (W)..
A method and apparatus for within-wafer profile localized tuning is disclosed.
In one aspect, the method includes providing a wafer attached to a rotating vacuum stage front side up, the wafer including a surface film with an incoming film thickness profile, providing a pad attached to a rotating head front side down, the head configured to sweep along a path, computing a film thickness removal amount based upon the incoming film thickness profile, and removing at least a portion of the surface film of the wafer based on the computed film thickness removal amount via a plurality of steps..
An etching method includes a step of selectively forming deposit on a top surface of a mask disposed on a film of a substrate, a step of etching the film after the step of forming the deposit, a step of forming a layer of chemical species included in plasma of a processing gas, on the substrate, and a step of supplying ions from plasma of an inert gas to the substrate so that the chemical species react with the film..
A method for etching a ruthenium film includes a first step of etching the ruthenium film by plasma processing using oxygen-containing gas, and a second step of etching the ruthenium film by plasma processing using chlorine-containing gas.
The first step and the second step are alternately performed.
In the first step and the second step, the ruthenium film is etched at a target control temperature for a target processing time that are determined based on a pre-obtained relation between an etching amount per one cycle including the first step and the second step as a set, a control temperature of the ruthenium film, and processing times of each of the first step and the second step..
Methods for seam-less gapfill comprising depositing a film in a feature, treating the film to change some film property and selectively etching the film from the top surface are described.
The deposition, treatment and etching are repeated to form a seam-less gapfill in the feature..
A method for cleaning a substrate includes setting a substrate inside a cleaning chamber, supplying on a surface of the substrate a treatment solution which includes a volatile component and forms a treatment film, vaporizing the volatile component of the treatment solution supplied on the surface of the substrate such that the treatment solution solidifies or is cured on the surface of the substrate and the treatment film is formed on the surface of the substrate, and supplying onto the treatment film formed on the surface of the substrate a removal solution which removes the treatment film..
Disclosed is a plasma processing apparatus including: a placing table including a focus ring placed thereon and an electrode provided therein so as to face the focus ring; and a voltage application unit that applies, to the electrode, voltages having different polarities in cycles or a voltage having a large absolute value in steps, during a plasma processing period..
An apparatus and an operating method for automated wafer carrier handling are provided.
The apparatus includes a base frame and an engaging mechanism disposed on the base frame.
The engaging mechanism includes a controller and an active expansion component moveably coupled to the base frame and controlled by the controller to perform a reciprocating movement relative to the base frame.
The active expansion component is driven by the controller to pass through the base frame to be engaged with a top flange mounted on the wafer carrier..
A substrate processing system includes a processing unit including processing modules and a first transfer device, a loading/unloading unit including a load port holding a substrate accommodating container and a second transfer device, and a control unit.
The control unit controls the substrates to be sequentially transferred.
When an error has occurred in a certain processing module, the control unit executes: collecting a substrate that has been unloaded from the substrate accommodating container but has not been processed in the substrate accommodating container; continuing processing of a preceding substrate in a processing module sequentially following the processing module in which the error has occurred; retreating an error substrate processed in the process module in which the error has occurred from the processing module to a retreat position; and continuing processing of a subsequent substrate processed in a processing module sequentially preceding the processing module in which the error has occurred..
An ion beam deposition apparatus includes a substrate assembly to secure a substrate, a target assembly slanted with respect to the substrate assembly, the target assembly including a target with deposition materials, an ion gun to inject ion beams onto the target, such that ions of the deposition materials are discharged toward the substrate assembly to form a thin layer on the substrate, and a substrate heater to heat the substrate to a deposition temperature higher than a room temperature..
A fan-out type semiconductor package may include a frame, a semiconductor chip, a lower photoimageable dielectric (PID), a lower redistribution layer (RDL), a molding member, a first upper RDL, an upper PID and a second upper RDL.
The frame may include an insulation substrate having a cavity and a middle RDL formed through the insulation substrate, with the semiconductor chip arranged in the cavity.
The first upper RDL may be arranged on an upper surface of the insulation substrate.
The first upper RDL may be connected to an upper end of the middle RDL.
The upper PID may be formed on upper surfaces of the frame, the semiconductor chip and the molding member.
The second upper RDL may be formed in the upper PID.
A photolithography process may be applied to the upper PID so that the second upper RDL formed on the upper PID may have a fine pattern..
A transfer device is disposed in a vacuum transfer chamber.
The transfer device includes a structure body having an inner space isolated from the vacuum transfer chamber, an arm that rotates with respect to the structure body, and a vacuum seal structure configured to airtightly seal a sliding portion between the structure body and the arm.
Further, the vacuum seal structure includes one or more seal members disposed at the sliding portion; a sealing portion formed by the structure body, the arm, and the seal members, lubricant being sealed in the sealing portion; and a pressure adjusting unit configured to adjust a pressure in the sealing portion..
A light emitting device includes a semiconductor light emitting element; and a light reflective member having a multilayer structure and covering the side faces of the semiconductor light emitting element.
The light reflective member includes: a first layer disposed on an inner, semiconductor light emitting element side, the first layer comprising a light-transmissive resin containing a light reflective substance, and a second layer disposed in contact with an outer side of the first layer, the second layer comprising a light-transmissive resin containing the light reflective substance at a lower content than that of the first layer..
A vacuum suction apparatus includes a semiconductor substrate with a top portion having grooves and a bottom portion having through holes, wherein each said groove correspondingly connects with at least one said through hole, and the groove has a width greater than a width of the through hole; and a cover plate disposed on a top surface of the semiconductor substrate.
At least one edge of the vacuum suction apparatus has a vacuum chamber, which connects with the grooves.
In another embodiment, the cover plate is replaced with a vacuum cover disposed above the semiconductor substrate, wherein the vacuum cover and the semiconductor substrate construct a vacuum chamber..
A determination is made of a real-time azimuthal position of a notch alignment feature located on a support surface of a substrate holder relative to a fixed reference ray extending perpendicularly away from a rotational axis of the substrate holder as the substrate holder rotates about the rotational axis.
A determination is made of an approach initiation azimuthal position of the notch alignment feature relative to the fixed reference ray at which vertical movement of the substrate holder should initiate in order to have the notch alignment feature located at a prescribed azimuthal position relative to the fixed reference ray when the substrate holder reaches a prescribed vertical position.
A determination is made of a time delay required to have the notch alignment feature located at the approach initiation azimuthal position.
Vertical movement of the substrate holder is initiated in accordance with the determined time delay..
An electrostatic chuck assembly includes an electrostatic chuck including a circular-shaped electrostatic dielectric layer on which a wafer is mounted and an adsorption electrode in the electrostatic dielectric layer, and a control part configured to control the electrostatic chuck, wherein the adsorption electrode comprises a plurality of sub-adsorption electrodes separated from each other in an X direction and a Y direction perpendicular to the X direction on a plane level from a central portion of the electrostatic dielectric layer..
A semiconductor manufacturing apparatus includes a chuck stage, a scrubber nozzle, a scrubber nozzle scan mechanism, a stage rotation mechanism, and a holding stage including a holding fluid nozzle and a top plate, the top plate having one main surface facing an opposite surface of a wafer, and the holding fluid nozzle being disposed adjacent to a center rather than a periphery portion of the top plate.
A holding fluid discharged from the holding fluid nozzle is caused to flow through an area between the opposite surface of the wafer and the one main surface of the top plate to produce holding force, and the holding force causes the opposite surface to hold pressure applied to a processing surface of the wafer by a scrubbing fluid discharged from the scrubber nozzle..
Semiconductor processing tools are provided that include an upper support framework, a plurality of semiconductor processing chambers arranged along a first axis, a linear guide system fixedly supported by the upper support framework and extending along a second axis substantially parallel to the first axis, and a carriage.
Each chamber has a base portion fixedly mounted relative to the upper support framework and a removable top cover with one or more hoisting features.
The carriage includes a hoist arm configured to pivot about a vertical axis that is substantially perpendicular to the second axis, the carriage is configured to movably engage with the linear guide system and translate along the second axis relative to the linear guide system.
The carriage and hoist arm are movable such that a hoist feature engagement interface of the hoist arm can be moved engage with hoisting features of any of the removable top covers..
A mask includes a substrate, a light-reflecting structure, a patterned layer, and a plurality of bumps.
The substrate has a first surface and a second surface.
The light-reflecting structure is located on the first surface of the substrate.
The patterned layer is located on the light-reflecting structure.
The bumps are located on the second surface of the substrate.
The bumps define a plurality of voids therebetween and protrude in a direction away from the second surface of the substrate..
An embodiment of a substrate placing part relates to a substrate placing part that is arranged in a substrate processing apparatus.
The substrate placing part is divided into a plurality of inner sections that have an inner heating wire and an outer heating wire; and an outer section that is arranged in an edge thereof, that surrounds the inner sections, and that includes the outer heating wire, wherein the inner heating wire is disposed in the same inner section and has a first gap in at least a partial section thereof, the respective inner heating wires disposed in the different inner sections are disposed to have a second gap in a part in which the inner heating wires are parallel to one another, the inner heating wire and the outer heating wire are disposed to have a third gap in a part in which the inner heating wire and the outer heating wire are parallel to one another, and the first gap may be smaller than the second gap..
A light emitting diode (LED) includes an elastomeric material that facilitates adhesive attachment with a pick-up head for pick and place operations.
The LED includes an epitaxial layer defining a mesa structure and a light emitting surface.
The mesa structure includes an active layer to emit light, and the emitted light is reflected at the mesa structure toward a light emitting region of the light emitting surface and transmitted at the light emitting region.
An elastomeric material is on a portion of the light emitting surface, such as the light emitting region or a passive region.
At the light emitting region, the elastomeric material may be shaped as a lens that collimates light transmitted from the light emitting region, and also facilitates adhesion to the pick-up head.
At the passive region, the elastomeric material facilitates adhesion to the pick-up head without interfering with light emitted from the light emitting region..
A plasma processing apparatus includes a chamber, a mounting table 2 and a focus ring 8.
The chamber is configured to process a semiconductor wafer W with plasma.
The mounting table 2 is provided within the chamber, and includes a holding surface 9a on which the semiconductor wafer W is mounted.
The focus ring 8 is provided to surround the semiconductor wafer W mounted on the holding surface 9a, and includes a first flat portion 8a, a second flat portion 8b and a third flat portion 8c which are formed in sequence from an inner circumferential side of the focus ring 8 toward an outer circumferential side thereof.
Here, the first flat portion 8a is lower than the holding surface 9a, the second flat portion 8b is lower than the first flat portion 8a, and the third flat portion 8c is higher than the first flat portion 8a..
The instant disclosure discloses a reticle retaining system comprising an inner pod and an outer pod.
The inner pod is configured to receive a reticle that includes a first identification feature.
The inner pod comprises an inner base having a reticle accommodating region generally at a geometric center thereof and surrounded by a periphery region, and an inner cover configured to establish sealing engagement with the inner base.
The inner base has a first observable zone defined in the reticle accommodating region correspondingly arranged to allow observation of the first identification feature.
The outer pod is configured to receive the inner base.
The outer pod comprises an outer base having a second observable zone defined thereon observably aligned to the first observable zone of the inner pod upon receiving the inner pod, and an outer cover configured to engage the outer base and cover the inner pod..
A system for retaining a spin-coating fluid when forming a thin film includes a rotatable chuck; a substrate on the rotatable chuck, the substrate having an interior area and an outer perimeter edge; and a fluid retention wall on the outer perimeter edge of the substrate, the fluid retention wall being configured to retain a spin-coating fluid deposited on the interior area of the substrate during rotation of the rotatable chuck..
A plating system comprising a plating tank for applying plate processing to a substrate, a sensor configured to measure actual plating film thickness of the substrate, and a controller configured to control plating current supplied to the plating tank and plating time for the plate processing of the substrate within the plating tank.
The controller is capable of setting target plating film thickness, plating current, and plating time as a plate processing recipe.
At least one of the plating current and the plating time is automatically corrected so that the actual plating film thickness and the target plating film thickness become equal to each other, and the result is reflected in the plate processing for the subsequent substrate..
There is provided a technique that includes a load port on which a plurality of storage containers, each storage container storing a plurality of substrates, are mounted, a plurality of process chambers configured to be capable of accommodating the substrates, a transfer part configured to transfer the substrates stored in each storage container to each of the process chambers; an operation part configured to, when performing the process in a state in which a substrate is not present in each process chamber, count first count data of data tables for corresponding process chambers; a memory configured to store the data tables; and a controller configured to assign first transfer flag data to a data table of a process chamber having largest first count data and configured to control the transfer part based on the first transfer flag data so as to transfer the substrates in the predetermined order..
A 3D-NAND memory device is provided.
The memory device includes a substrate, a bottom select gate (BSG) disposed over the substrate, a plurality of word lines positioned over the BSG with a staircase configuration and a plurality of insulating layers disposed between the substrate, the BSG, and the plurality of word lines.
In the disclosed memory device, one or more first dielectric trenches are formed in the BSG and extend in a length direction of the substrate to separate the BSG into a plurality of sub-BSGs.
In addition, one or more common source regions are formed over the substrate and extend in the length direction of the substrate.
The one or more common source regions further extend through the BSG, the plurality of word lines and the plurality of insulating layers.
A method of wafer dicing and a die are provided.
The method includes the following processes.
A wafer is provided, the wafer includes a plurality of die regions and a scribe region between the die regions.
The scribe region includes a substrate, and a dielectric layer and a test structure on the substrate, the test structure is disposed in the dielectric layer.
A first removal process is performed to remove the test structure and the dielectric layer around the test structure, so as to expose the substrate.
The first removal process includes performing a plurality of etching cycles, and each etching cycle includes performing a first etching process to remove a portion of the test structure and performing a second etching process to remove a portion of the dielectric layer.
A second removal process is performed to remove the substrate in the scribe region, so as to form a plurality of dies separated from each other.
The present application discloses a semiconductor device and a method for fabricating the semiconductor device.
The semiconductor device includes a first semiconductor structure, a first connecting structure positioned on the first semiconductor structure, and a second semiconductor structure positioned on the first connecting structure.
The first connecting structure includes a first connecting insulating layer positioned on the first semiconductor structure, a plurality of first connecting contacts positioned in the first connecting insulating layer, and a plurality of first supporting contacts positioned in the first connecting insulating layer.
The top surfaces of the plurality of first connecting contacts contact a bottom surface of the second semiconductor structure.
A top surface of the plurality of first connecting contact and a top surface of the plurality of first supporting contact protrude from a top surface of the first connecting insulating layer
Provided herein may be a semiconductor device and a method of manufacturing the same.
The semiconductor device may include a memory string including memory cells coupled to each other in series via a channel layer, the memory string coupled between a bit line and a second source line.
The semiconductor device may include a first source line electrically coupled to the second source line through the channel layer.
Exemplary methods of etching semiconductor substrates may include flowing a halogen-containing precursor into a processing region of a semiconductor processing chamber.
The processing region may house a substrate having a conductive material and an overlying mask material.
The conductive material may be characterized by a first surface in contact with the mask material, and the mask material may define an edge region of the conductive material.
The methods may include contacting the edge region of the conductive material with the halogen-containing precursor and the oxygen-containing precursor.
The methods may include etching in a first etching operation the edge region of the conductive material to a partial depth through the conductive material to produce a footing of conductive material protruding along the edge region of the conductive material.
The methods may also include removing the footing of conductive material in a second etching operation.
A structure and a formation method of a semiconductor device structure are provided.
The semiconductor device structure includes a semiconductor substrate and a conductive feature over the semiconductor substrate.
The semiconductor device structure also includes a dielectric layer over the conductive feature and the semiconductor substrate and a via hole in the dielectric layer.
The via hole has an oval cross section.
The semiconductor device structure further includes a trench in the dielectric layer, and the via hole extends from a bottom portion of the trench.
The trench has a trench width wider than a hole width of the via hole.
In addition, the semiconductor device structure includes one or more conductive materials filling the via hole and the trench and electrically connected to the conductive feature.
An interconnect structure includes an interlayer dielectric (ILD) having a cavity extending therethrough along a first direction.
A first electrically conductive strip is formed on a substrate and within the cavity.
The first electrically conductive strip extends along the first direction and across an upper surface of the substrate.
A second electrically conductive strip is on an upper surface of the ILD and extends along a second direction opposite the first direction.
A fully aligned via (FAV) extends between the first and second electrically conductive strips such that all sides of the FAV are co-planar with opposing sides of the first electrically conductive strip and opposing sides of the second electrically conductive strip thereby providing a FAV that is fully aligned with the first electrically conductive strip and the second electrically conductive strip.
A method includes etching a semiconductor substrate to form a trench, with the semiconductor substrate having a sidewall facing the trench, and depositing a first semiconductor layer extending into the trench.
The first semiconductor layer includes a first bottom portion at a bottom of the trench, and a first sidewall portion on the sidewall of the semiconductor substrate.
The first sidewall portion is removed to reveal the sidewall of the semiconductor substrate.
The method further includes depositing a second semiconductor layer extending into the trench, with the second semiconductor layer having a second bottom portion over the first bottom portion, and a second sidewall portion contacting the sidewall of the semiconductor substrate.
The second sidewall portion is removed to reveal the sidewall of the semiconductor substrate.
The present disclosure relates to semiconductor structures and, more particularly, to a cut inside a replacement metal gate trench to mitigate n-p proximity effects and methods of manufacture.
The structure described herein includes: a first device; a second device, adjacent to the first device; a dielectric material, of the first device and the second device, including a cut within a trench between the first device and the second device; and a common gate electrode shared with the first device and the second device, the common gate electrode provided over the dielectric material and contacting underlying material within the cut.
A structure (interconnect or memory structure) is provided that includes a first electrically conductive structure having a concave upper surface embedded in a first interconnect dielectric material layer.
A metal-containing cap having a convex bottom surface directly contacts the concave upper surface of the first electrically conductive structure.
A metal-containing structure having a planar bottommost surface directly contacts a planar topmost surface of the metal-containing cap.
A second electrically conductive structure contacts the planar topmost surface of the metal-containing structure.
A second interconnect dielectric material layer is present on the first interconnect dielectric material layer and is located laterally adjacent to an upper portion of the metal-containing cap, the metal-containing structure, and the second electrically conductive structure.
A memory structure, includes (a) active columns of polysilicon formed above a semiconductor substrate, each active column extending vertically from the substrate and including a first heavily doped region, a second heavily doped region, and one or more lightly doped regions each adjacent both the first and second heavily doped region, wherein the active columns are arranged in a two-dimensional array extending in second and third directions parallel to the planar surface of the semiconductor substrate; (b) charge-trapping material provided over one or more surfaces of each active column; and (c) conductors each extending lengthwise along the third direction.
The active columns, the charge-trapping material and the conductors together form a plurality of thin film transistors, with each thin film transistor formed by one of the conductors, a portion of the lightly doped region of an active column, the charge-trapping material between the portion of the lightly doped region and the conductor, and the first and second heavily doped regions.
The thin film transistors associated with each active column are organized into one or more vertical NOR strings..
A semiconductor device has a semiconductor die containing a base material having a first surface and a second surface with an image sensor area.
A masking layer with varying width openings is disposed over the first surface of the base material.
The openings in the masking layer are larger in a center region of the semiconductor die and smaller toward edges of the semiconductor die.
A portion of the first surface of the base material is removed by plasma etching to form a first curved surface.
A metal layer is formed over the first curved surface of the base material.
The semiconductor die is positioned over a substrate with the first curved surface oriented toward the substrate.
Pressure and temperature is applied to assert movement of the base material to change orientation of the second surface with the image sensor area into a second curved surface..
A method of producing a color filter includes applying, on a semiconductor substrate, a first color filter material including a first resin dispersion including a first pigment and a resin material, curing the first color filter material such that a first color filter film is formed and serves as a precursor of a first color filter including the first pigment, forming a photosensitive resin mask material layer on the first color filter film, forming openings by photolithography in portions of the photosensitive resin mask material layer such that second and subsequent color filters including pigments of colors different from the first pigment are to be formed in the openings, and that portions of the first color filter film are exposed by the openings, dry-etching the portions of the first color filter film by using a dry etching gas and the photosensitive resin mask material layer as an etching mask, removing the etching mask such that the first color filter is formed, and forming the second and subsequent color filters..
Methods of forming semiconductor devices are provided.
One of the methods includes following steps.
A plurality of hard mask patterns is formed around a region of a substrate, wherein an imaginary connecting line is formed between corners of two of the plurality of hard mask patterns at the same side of the region, and the imaginary connecting line is substantially parallel to or perpendicular to a horizontal direction.
A semiconductor layer is formed on the substrate by a selective epitaxial growth process..
A semiconductor device includes a contact via and a metal interconnect on the contact via.
The metal interconnect has a portion extending in a lengthwise direction that is wrapped around and in contact with a sidewall of the contact via.
Along a widthwise direction, the metal interconnect does not contact the sidewall of the contact via..
A method used in forming a memory array and conductive through-array-vias (TAVs) comprises forming a stack comprising vertically-alternating insulative tiers and wordline tiers.
A mask is formed comprising horizontally-elongated trench openings and operative TAV openings above the stack.
Etching is conducted of unmasked portions of the stack through the trench and operative TAV openings in the mask to form horizontally-elongated trench openings in the stack and to form operative TAV openings in the stack.
Conductive material is formed in the operative TAV openings in the stack to form individual operative TAVs in individual of the operative TAV openings in the stack.
A wordline-intervening structure is formed in individual of the trench openings in the stack..
A method of decomposing a layout for multiple-patterning lithography includes receiving an input that represents a layout of a semiconductor device.
The layout includes a plurality of conductive lines of a cell.
A first set of conductive lines are overlaid by a second set of conductive lines.
The method further includes partitioning the second set of conductive lines into groups.
A first group has a different number of conductive lines from the second set than a second group.
The method further includes assigning conductive lines from the first set overlaid by conductive lines of the first group to a first photomask and assigning conductive lines from the first set overlaid by conductive lines of the second group to second and third photomasks..
A method for electrically characterizing a layer disposed on a substrate and electrically insulated from the substrate is disclosed.
The method can include forming a test pattern, contacting the test pattern with electrical contact elements at contact regions, and measuring an electrical parameter of the layer by passing a first set of test currents between contact regions.
The test pattern can be formed by pushing a pattern forming head against a top surface of the layer, introducing a first fluid into the cavity, and converting the sacrificial portion of the layer into an insulator using the first fluid and forming the test pattern under the test-pattern-shaped inner seal..
A method used in forming a memory array comprising strings of memory cells comprises forming a conductor tier comprising conductor material on a substrate.
A stack comprising vertically-alternating first tiers and second tiers is formed above the conductor tier.
The stack comprises laterally-spaced memory-block regions that have horizontally-elongated trenches there-between.
Channel-material strings extend through the first tiers and the second tiers.
Material of the first tiers is of different composition from material of the second tiers.
A lowest of the first tiers comprises sacrificial material of different composition from the first-tier material there-above and from the second-tier material tier there-above.
The sacrificial material is of different composition from that of an uppermost portion of the conductor material of the conductor tier.
The sacrificial material is isotropically etched selectively relative to the uppermost portion of the conductor material of the conductor tier, selectively relative to the first-tier material there-above, and selectively relative to the second-tier material there-above.
After the isotropic etching, conductive material is formed in the lowest first tier that directly electrically couples together the channel material of individual of the channel-material strings and the conductor material of the conductor tier.
Other methods and structure independent of method are disclosed..
A method and structures are used to fabricate a nanosheet semiconductor device.
Nanosheet fins including nanosheet stacks including alternating silicon (Si) layers and silicon germanium (SiGe) layers are formed on a substrate and etched to define a first end and a second end along a first axis between which each nanosheet fin extends parallel to every other nanosheet fin.
The SiGe layers are undercut in the nanosheet stacks at the first end and the second end to form divots, and a dielectric is deposited in the divots.
The SiGe layers between the Si layers are removed before forming source and drain regions of the nanosheet semiconductor device such that there are gaps between the Si layers of each nanosheet stack, and the dielectric anchors the Si layers.
The gaps are filled with an oxide that is removed after removing the dummy gate and prior to forming the replacement gate..
A substrate processing apparatus includes a placing table configured to hold a substrate having a processing target film, which is decomposed by irradiating an ultraviolet ray thereto under an oxygen-containing atmosphere; a processing chamber, configured to accommodate therein the substrate placed on the placing table, having therein the oxygen-containing atmosphere; and an ultraviolet ray irradiation device configured to irradiate the ultraviolet ray to the substrate within the processing chamber.
Further, the placing table is provided with a surrounding member configured to surround the substrate placed on the placing table and restrict a gas introduction amount from an outside of the substrate toward above the substrate..
A semiconductor processing device is provided.
The device includes a reaction chamber, a first gas inlet mechanism, and a second gas inlet mechanism that includes a gas inlet, a uniform-flow chamber, at least one gas outlet, and at least one switch element.
The gas inlet communicates with the uniform-flow chamber and arranged to deliver a process gas into the uniform-flow chamber.
The at least one gas outlet is between the reaction chamber and the uniflow-flow chamber.
The at least one switch element is disposed in each gas outlet and arranged to enable the uniform-flow chamber to communicate with the reaction chamber when the process gas is being delivered into the uniform-flow chamber through the gas inlet, and to isolate the uniform-flow chamber from the reaction chamber when no process gas is being delivered into the uniform-flow chamber..
Selective gas etching for self-aligned pattern transfer uses a first block and a separate second block formed in a sacrificial layer to transfer critical dimensions to a desired final layer using a selective gas etching process.
The first block is a first hardmask material that can be plasma etched using a first gas, and the second block is a second hardmask material that can be plasma etched using a second gas separate from the first gas.
The first hardmask material is not plasma etched using the second gas, and the second hardmask material is not plasma etched using the first gas..
A cleaning apparatus of a substrate processing apparatus according to an exemplary embodiment includes a nozzle and a scanner.
The nozzle ejects a gas toward in an inner wall surface of a processing chamber in which a substrate is processed.
The scanner causes the nozzle to scan along the inner wall surface of the processing chamber in the processing chamber..
Exemplary methods of etching semiconductor substrates may include flowing a fluorine-containing precursor into a processing region of a semiconductor processing chamber.
The processing region may house a substrate having an exposed region of a first silicon-containing material and an exposed region of a second silicon-containing material.
The second silicon-containing material may be exposed within a recessed feature defined by the substrate.
The methods may include flowing a silicon-containing precursor into the processing region of the semiconductor processing chamber.
The methods may include forming a plasma within the processing region of the semiconductor processing chamber to generate plasma effluents of the fluorine-containing precursor and the silicon-containing precursor.
The methods may include contacting the substrate with the plasma effluents.
The methods may include removing at least a portion of the second silicon-containing material..
A wafer process chamber includes a wafer support in the wafer process chamber, the wafer support configured to support a wafer.
The process chamber includes a gas diffuser unit within the wafer process chamber.
A substrate processing apparatus including a transfer chamber; upper gas supply mechanism that supplies a gas into an upper region of the transfer chamber through a first gas supply port; and lower gas supply mechanism that supplies the gas into a lower region of the transfer chamber through a second gas supply port.
The upper gas supply mechanism includes a first buffer chamber disposed at a back surface of the first gas supply port; a pair of upper ducts disposed at both sides of the first buffer chamber; and a first ventilation unit disposed at lower ends of the pair of upper ducts.
The lower gas supply mechanism includes a second buffer chamber disposed at a back surface of the second gas supply port; a lower duct disposed at lower surface of the second buffer chamber; and a second ventilation unit disposed at a lower end of the lower duct..
There is provided a substrate processing apparatus including a process chamber defined at least by a reaction tube and a furnace opening part provided at a lower portion of the reaction tube; a nozzle provided at the furnace opening part and extending from the furnace opening part to an inside of the reaction tube; a gas supply system provided at an upstream side of the nozzle; a blocking part provided at a boundary between the gas supply system and the nozzle; and a controller configured to control the gas supply system and the blocking part such that the blocking part co-operates with the gas supply system to supply gases into the process chamber through the nozzle..
A method of controlling a substrate treatment apparatus including a chamber, a stage having elevation pins, a gas introducer disposed above the stage and introducing a treatment gas into the chamber, a first heating source heating the gas introducer, a stage elevator moving the stage up/down, and an elevator for elevation pins moving the elevation pins up/down, is provided.
The method includes supporting a substrate having an oxide on the stage; etching the oxide using a treatment gas by supplying the treatment gas from the gas introducer; moving down the stage while maintaining a position of the substrate using the elevation pins; and sublimating a reaction product produced in etching the oxide by the first heating source..
A method of depositing a thin film having a desired etching characteristic while improving a loss amount and loss uniformity of a lower film includes, on the semiconductor substrate and the pattern structure: a first operation of depositing a portion of the thin film by repeating a first cycle comprising (a1) a source gas supply operation, (b1) a reactant gas supply operation, and (c1) a plasma supply operation for a certain number of times; a second operation of depositing a remaining portion of the thin film by repeating a second cycle comprising (a2) a source gas supply operation, (b2) a reactant gas supply operation, and (c2) a plasma supply operation for a certain number of times after the first operation, wherein a supply time of the source gas supply operation (a1) is longer than a supply time of the source gas supply operation (a2)..
This disclosure relates to a plasma processing system for VHF plasma processing using a transmission antenna designed to enable a resonant VHF standing wave inside a plasma process chamber used to manufacture semiconductor devices.
The system includes a transmission element capable of being electromagnetically coupled to incoming power lines connected to a power source.
The transmission element, power transmission lines, and power source form a resonant circuit capable of enabling a VHF standing wave on the transmission element.
The transmission element is folded back on itself to reduce the footprint of the antenna, such that the transmission element(s) can be located inside the plasma process chamber.
The transmission antenna has three portions, with the first being electromagnetically coupled to the power transmission line, the second being coupled to plasma, and the third being a folded portion that reduces the transmission element's footprint..
A film forming apparatus includes a rotary table having a loading area at a first surface side thereof and revolving a substrate loaded on the loading area, a rotation mechanism rotating the loading area such that the substrate rotates around its axis, a processing gas supply mechanism supplying a processing gas to a processing gas supply area so that a thin film is formed on the substrate which repeatedly passes through the processing gas supply area the revolution of the substrate, and a control part configured to perform a calculation of a rotation speed of the substrate based on a parameter including a rotation speed of the rotary table to allow an orientation of the substrate to be changed whenever the substrate is positioned in the processing gas supply area, and to output a control signal for rotating the substrate at a calculated rotation speed..
[Object] To make it difficult for components other than films to be contained in a lamination interface.
[Solving Means] In a deposition apparatus, a vacuum chamber includes a partition wall which defines a plasma formation space and includes quartz.
An deposition preventive plate is provided between at least a part of the partition wall and the plasma formation space and includes at least one of yttria, silicon nitride, or silicon carbide.
On a support stage, a substrate including a trench or hole including a bottom portion and a side wall is capable of being disposed.
A plasma generation source generates first plasma of deposition gas including silicon introduced into the plasma formation space to thereby form a semiconductor film including silicon on the bottom portion and the side wall.
The plasma generation source generates second plasma of etching gas including halogen introduced into the plasma formation space to thereby selectively remove the semiconductor film formed on the side wall.
A controller is capable of switching between generation of the first plasma and generation of the second plasma..
Provided is a substrate processing apparatus.
The substrate processing apparatus includes a tube configured to provide a processing space, a partition wall configured to provide a discharge space in which plasma is generated, a gas supply pipe configured to supply a process gas to the discharge space, and a plurality of electrodes configured to generate plasma in the discharge space.
At least one of the plurality of electrodes is disposed outside the partition wall, and at least one of the plurality of electrodes is disposed inside the partition wall..
A plasma reactor includes a chamber body having an interior space that provides a plasma chamber and having a ceiling, a gas distributor to deliver a processing gas to the plasma chamber, a pump coupled to the plasma chamber to evacuate the chamber, a workpiece support to hold a workpiece, and an intra-chamber electrode assembly.
The intra-chamber electrode assembly includes an insulating frame, a first plurality of coplanar filaments that extend laterally through the plasma chamber between the ceiling and the workpiece support along a first direction, and a second plurality of coplanar filaments that extend in parallel through the plasma chamber along a second direction perpendicular to the first direction.
Each filament of the first and second plurality of filaments includes a conductor at least partially surrounded by an insulating shell.
A first RF power source supplies a first RF power to the conductor of the intra-chamber electrode assembly..
A plasma processing method includes: placing a substrate on a substrate support provided in a chamber of a capacitively coupled plasma processing apparatus where the substrate includes a silicon-containing film and a mask provided on the silicon-containing film and having an opening having a longitudinal direction; and supplying an inert gas into the chamber; and selectively performing one of supplying a first radio-frequency power to an upper electrode of the plasma processing apparatus to generate plasma from the inert gas and supplying a second radio-frequency power to a lower electrode of the plasma processing apparatus included in the substrate support, and applying a negative bias voltage to the upper electrode to cause positive ions from the plasma to collide with the upper electrode and release a silicon-containing material from the upper electrode, thereby depositing the silicon-containing material on the substrate..
A substrate is mounted on a rotator provided in a reaction chamber, while a first process gas containing no source gas is supplied to an upper surface of the substrate from above the substrate and the substrate is rotated at 300 rpm or more, a temperature of a wall surface is changed, and after a temperature of the substrate is allowed to rise, the substrate is controlled to a predetermined film formation temperature and a second process gas containing a source gas is supplied to the upper surface of the substrate from above the substrate to grow an SiC film on the substrate..
According to the invention there is provided a method of plasma etching a silicon-based compound semiconductor substrate, the method comprising providing the substrate within an etch chamber and performing a cyclical process on the substrate, each cycle comprising supplying an etchant gas into the chamber, energising the gas into a plasma, and performing an etch step on the substrate using the plasma; and performing a desorption step, wherein during the desorption step, the only gas that is supplied into the etch chamber is an inert gas, so as to allow reactive species that have adsorbed to the surface of the substrate during the etch step to desorb from the surface of the substrate..
A method for forming a semiconductor device structure is provided.
The method includes forming a first layer over a second layer.
The method includes forming a first recess and a second recess in the first layer.
The first recess is narrower than the second recess.
The method includes forming a first covering layer in the first recess and the second recess.
The first covering layer in the first recess is thinner than the first covering layer in the second recess.
The method includes removing the first covering layer in the first recess and the first covering layer covering the first bottom surface to form a first opening in the first covering layer in the second recess.
The method includes removing the first portion and the second portion through the first recess and the first opening..
Embodiments of methods and structures for forming a 3D integrated wiring structure are disclosed.
The method can include forming an insulating layer on a front side of a first substrate; forming a semiconductor layer on a front side of the insulating layer; patterning the semiconductor layer to expose at least a portion of a surface of the insulating layer; forming a plurality of semiconductor structures over the front side of the first substrate, wherein the semiconductor structures include a plurality of conductive contacts and a first conductive layer; joining a second substrate with the semiconductor structures; performing a thinning process on a backside of the first substrate to expose the insulating layer and one end of the plurality of conductive contacts; and forming a conductive wiring layer on the exposed insulating layer..
A method of forming an interconnect structure for semiconductor devices is described.
The method comprises etching a patterned interconnect stack for form first conductive lines and expose a top surface of a first etch stop layer; etching the first etch stop layer to form second conductive lines and expose a top surface of a barrier layer; and forming a self-aligned via..
A method includes depositing a hard mask over a target layer.
Depositing the hard mask includes depositing a first hard mask layer having a first density and depositing a second hard mask layer over the first hard mask layer, the second hard mask layer having a second density greater than the first density.
The method further includes forming a plurality of mandrels over the hard mask; depositing a spacer layer over and along sidewalls of the plurality of mandrels; patterning the spacer layer to provide a plurality of spacers on the sidewalls of the plurality of mandrels; after patterning the spacer layer, removing the plurality of mandrels; transferring a patterning the plurality of spacers to the hard mask; and patterning the target layer using the hard mask as a mask..
A semiconductor device and method of fabricating the same are provided.
The semiconductor device includes a substrate having a trench and an etching stop layer.
The etching stop layer is disposed in the substrate and surrounds the bottom surface and a portion of a sidewall of the trench..
A laminate by using a paste or solution containing aliphatic polycarbonates having an etching mask function is provided.
A method of producing a laminate of the present invention includes a pattern forming step of forming a pattern 80 of a first oxide precursor layer in which a compound of metal to be oxidized into a metal oxide is dispersed in a solution containing a binder (possibly including inevitable impurities) made of aliphatic polycarbonates on an oxide layer 44 or on the second oxide precursor layer to be oxidized into the oxide layer 44; an etching step of, after the pattern forming step, etching the oxide layer 44 or the second oxide precursor layer that is not protected by the pattern 80; and a heating step of, after the etching step, heating the oxide layer 44 or the second oxide precursor layer, and the first oxide precursor layer to a temperature at which the binder is decomposed or higher..
A method of forming a substrate contact in a vertical transistor device includes patterning a sacrificial layer to form an opening in the sacrificial layer, the sacrificial layer disposed on hardmask arranged on a substrate, and the substrate including a bulk semiconductor layer, a buried oxide layer arranged on the bulk semiconductor layer, and a semiconductor layer arranged on the buried oxide layer; forming oxide spacers on sidewalls of the opening in the sacrificial layer; using the oxide spacers as a pattern to etch a trench through the substrate, the trench stopping at a region within the bulk semiconductor layer; and depositing a conductive material in the trench to form the substrate contact..
A method can be used for fabricating first and second semiconductor regions separated by isolating trenches.
A semiconductor substrate is covered with a first silicon nitride layer.
The first region is covered with a protection layer that can be etched selectively with respect to the silicon nitride.
The structure is covered with a second silicon nitride layer.
The trenches are etched through the second and first silicon nitride layers and filled with a filling silicon oxide to a level situated above the protection layer.
The second silicon nitride layer and the part of the first silicon nitride layer situated on the second region are selectively removed and the protection layer is removed.
The filling oxide is selectively etched by wet etching, thus resulting in pits on the surface of the filling oxide around the second region..
Metal contact openings are etched in the barrier layer of a group III-N HEMT with a first gas combination that etches down into the barrier layer, and a second gas combination that etches further down into the barrier layer to a depth that lies above the top surface of a channel layer that touches and lies below the barrier layer..
Implementations of the present disclosure generally relate to the fabrication of integrated circuits, and more particularly, to methods for forming a layer.
The layer may be a mask used in lithography process to pattern and form a trench.
The mask is formed over a substrate having at least two distinct materials by a selective deposition process.
The edges of the mask are disposed on an intermediate layer formed on at least one of the two distinct materials.
The method includes removing the intermediate layer to form a gap between edges of the mask and the substrate and filling the gap with a different material than the mask or with the same material as the mask.
By filling the gap with the same or different material as the mask, electrical paths are improved..
A fabrication method of a patterned metal film layer, including: sequentially depositing a first metal layer and a photoresist on a substrate; forming a first patterned photoresist in the photoresist retaining area; etching the first metal layer, and removing a part of the first metal layer having a first thickness and located in an edge area of the photoresist retaining area and in the photoresist removing area, to form a second metal layer; processing the first patterned photoresist to form a second patterned photoresist; etching and removing a part, which is not in contact with the second patterned photoresist, of the second metal layer on the substrate to form a patterned metal film layer..
An integrated circuit (IC) includes a substrate with a semiconductor surface layer including functional circuitry having a plurality of interconnected transistors including a dielectric layer thereon with a metal stack including a plurality of metal levels over the dielectric layer.
A thin film resistor (TFR) layer including at least one metal is within the metal stack.
At least one capacitor is within the metal stack including a capacitor dielectric layer over a metal bottom plate formed from one of the metal levels.
The capacitor top plate is formed from the TFR layer on the capacitor dielectric layer and there is at least one resistor lateral to the capacitor formed from the same TFR layer..
Generally, the present disclosure provides example embodiments relating to conductive features, such as metal contacts, vias, lines, etc., and methods for forming those conductive features.
In an embodiment, a barrier layer is formed along a sidewall.
A portion of the barrier layer along the sidewall is etched back.
After etching back the portion of the barrier layer, an upper portion of the barrier layer along the sidewall is smoothed.
A conductive material is formed along the barrier layer and over the smoothed upper portion of the barrier layer..
A method of forming an integrated circuit includes forming a first layer having a first material type over a first side of a semiconductor wafer.
A second layer having a second different material type is removed from a second opposing side of the semiconductor wafer using a first process that removes the second material type at a greater rate than the first material type.
Subsequent to removing the second layer, the first layer is removed using a second different process..
The present invention discloses a method for forming a semiconductor device with a reduced silicon horn structure.
After a pad nitride layer is removed from a substrate, a hard mask layer is conformally deposited over the substrate.
The hard mask layer is then etched and trimmed to completely remove a portion of the hard mask layer from an active area and a portion of the hard mask layer from an oblique sidewall of a protruding portion of a trench isolation region around the active area.
The active area is then etched to form a recessed region.
A gate dielectric layer is formed in the recessed region and a gate electrode layer is formed on the gate dielectric layer..
A semiconductor device with reduced parasitic capacitance is provided.
A stack is formed on an insulating layer, the stack comprising a first oxide insulating layer, an oxide semiconductor layer over the first oxide insulating layer, and a second oxide insulating layer are formed on the second oxide insulating layer, a first low-resistance region is formed by adding a first ion to the second oxide semiconductor layer using the gate electrode layer as a mask; a sidewall insulating layer is formed on an outer side of the gate electrode layer; a second conductive layer is formed over the gate electrode layer, the sidewall insulating layer, and the second insulating layer; and an alloyed region in the second oxide semiconductor layer is formed by performing heat treatment..
A method includes forming a spacer layer on a top surface and sidewalls of a patterned feature, wherein the patterned feature is overlying a base layer.
A protection layer is formed to contact a top surface and a sidewall surface of the spacer layer.
The horizontal portions of the protection layer are removed, wherein vertical portions of the protect layer remain after the removal.
The spacer layer is etched to remove horizontal portions of the spacer layer, wherein vertical portions of the spacer layer remain to form parts of spacers..
A non-volatile memory having a gate all around thin film transistor includes a multi-layer structure, an elongated plug structure, a first conductive plug, and a second conductive plug.
The multi-layer structure includes a plurality of gate electrode layers stacked on a substrate separately from each other.
The elongated plug structure penetrates through the multi-layer structure, and a cross-section of the elongated plug structure has an elongated contour.
The elongated plug structure includes an insulating pillar, a channel layer, and a gate dielectric layer.
The channel layer surrounds the insulating pillar.
The gate dielectric layer surrounds the channel layer.
The gate electrode layers surround the gate dielectric layer.
The first conductive plug is disposed between the channel layer and the substrate and between the insulating pillar and the substrate.
The second conductive plug is disposed on the insulating pillar and is covered by the channel layer..
In an embodiment, a wafer W includes a layer EL to be etched and a mask MK4 provided on the layer EL to be etched, and a method MT of an embodiment, the layer EL to be etched is etched by removing the layer EL to be etched for each atomic layer, by repeating sequence SQ3 including step ST9a of irradiating the mask MK4 with secondary electrons by generating plasma and applying a DC voltage to an upper electrode 30 of a parallel plate electrode, and covering the mask MK4 with silicon oxide compound, step ST9b of generating plasma of fluorocarbon-based gas and forming a mixed layer MX2 including radicals on an atomic layer of the layer EL to be etched, and ST9d of generating plasma of Ar gas and applying a bias voltage to remove the mixed layer MX2..
Some embodiments of the present disclosure relate to a processing tool.
The tool includes a housing enclosing a processing chamber, and an input/output port configured to pass a wafer through the housing into and out of the processing chamber.
A back-side macro-inspection system is arranged within the processing chamber and is configured to image a back side of the wafer.
A front-side macro-inspection system is arranged within the processing chamber and is configured to image a front side of the wafer according to a first image resolution.
A front-side micro-inspection system is arranged within the processing chamber and is configured to image the front side of the wafer according to a second image resolution which is higher than the first image resolution..
The present disclosure provides one embodiment of a semiconductor processing apparatus.
The semiconductor processing apparatus includes a load lock designed to receive a wafer carrier; an inner wafer carrier buffer configured to hold the wafer carrier received from the load lock and to perform a nitrogen purge to the wafer carrier; and a processing module designed to perform a semiconductor process to wafers from the wafer..
An operating method of a wafer cassette handling apparatus includes at least the following steps.
A stage that carries a wafer cassette is moved into a main body of a wafer cassette handling apparatus to open a cassette door of the wafer cassette.
The stage that carries the wafer cassette is moved out of the main body after the cassette door is opened.
A wafer is extracted from the wafer cassette and transferred to a processing system.
Another operating method and a wafer cassette handling apparatus are also provided..
The present invention provides a method for polishing a wafer including, after unloading and before loading to hold a next wafer to be polished: measurement to measure a depth PDt of a concave portion of a template after taking out a polished wafer; calculation to calculate a difference ΔPD between the measured depth PDt of the concave portion and a depth PD0 of the concave portion of the template before being used for polishing; and adjustment to adjust polishing conditions for a next wafer to be polished in accordance with the calculated difference ΔPD.
Consequently, there are provided the method for polishing a wafer and a polishing apparatus which enable adjusting a fluctuation in flatness of each wafer caused due to a fluctuation in numerical value of a pocket depth of a template..
A method of wafer dicing includes singulating dies from a semiconductor wafer.
The method further includes depositing a metal layer on back sides of the singulated dies, wherein a portion of the metal layer continues beyond the backs sides of the singulated dies to deposit at least partially on lateral sides of the singulated dies.
A packaged die includes a semiconductor die and a metal outer layer deposited on the back side of the semiconductor die and on a portion of the lateral side of the semiconductor die nearest the back side.
The packaged die further includes a substrate mounted to the back side of the semiconductor die a die attach material that bonds the substrate to the metal outer layer deposited on the semiconductor die, wherein the metal outer layer and the die attach material surround the back edge of the semiconductor die..
Systems, machines, and methods for monitoring wafer handling are disclosed herein.
A system for monitoring wafer handling includes a sensor and a controller.
The sensor is capable of being secured to an assembled wafer handling machine.
The controller is in electronic communication with the sensor and includes control logic.
The control logic is configured to store a reference output of the sensor when the wafer handling machine is aligned and is configured to generate an indication signal when a difference between the reference output and a current output of the sensor exceeds a threshold..
A wafer processing tool is capable of detecting wafer warpage.
The wafer processing tool includes a wafer holder on which a wafer is held and at least one sensor set.
The at least one sensor set is disposed above the wafer or under the wafer, and a projection of each of the at least one sensor set on the wafer radially extending from a center of the wafer to an edge of the wafer.
The at least one sensor set is configured to scan an entire surface of the wafer so as to measure warpage of the wafer while the wafer holder and the at least one sensor set are rotatable relative to each other..
Provided are a wafer bonding apparatus for accurately detecting a bonding state of wafers in a wafer bonding process and/or in a wafer bonding system including the wafer bonding apparatus.
The wafer bonding apparatus includes a first supporting plate including a first surface and vacuum grooves for vacuum-absorption of a first wafer disposed on the first surface, a second supporting plate including a second surface facing the first surface.
A second wafer is on the second surface.
The wafer bonding apparatus and/or the wafer bonding system include a bonding initiator at a center portion of the first supporting plate, and an area sensor on the first supporting plate and configured to detect a propagation state of bonding between the first wafer and the second wafer..
The present disclosure relates to a method for preparing nano-textured surface on single side of a silicon wafer, including the following steps: (1) superimposing two silicon wafers to obtain a first silicon wafer superimposition structure; the side on which the silicon wafers is superimposed is recorded as an attached surface, and the side exposed outside is recorded as an exposed surface; and (2) performing nano-textured surface etching on the first silicon wafer superimposition structure; and providing each silicon wafer with nano-textured surface on the exposed surface and a nano-textured surface etched strip on the edge of the attached surface.
In the present disclosure, while the nano-textured surface etching is performed, the edge of the attached surface is etched with nano-textured surface by selecting a specific etching rate, which reduces the pulling force for detaching the wafers and reduces the fragmentation rate during the detaching process..
Embodiments disclosed herein include a sensor wafer.
In an embodiment, the sensor wafer comprises a substrate, wherein the substrate comprises a first surface, a second surface opposite the first surface, and an edge surface between the first surface and the second surface.
In an embodiment, the sensor wafer further comprises a plurality of sensor regions formed along the edge surface, wherein each sensor region comprises a self-referencing capacitive sensor..
A method includes delivering a wafer into a process chamber, applying a thermal energy to the wafer by a heat source, and moving the heat source substantially along a longitudinal direction of the heat source with respect to the wafer.
An apparatus that performs the method is also disclosed..
A method for CMP is provided.
The method includes the following operations.
A semiconductor wafer is received.
The semiconductor wafer is polished.
In some embodiments, a residue is generated during polishing the semiconductor wafer and the residue attaches to a surface of a conditioning disk disposed on a dresser head.
The dresser head and the conditioning disk are moved back and forth between a refuge position and a working region by the dresser arm during polishing the semiconductor wafer.
The surface of the conditioning disk is scanned to remove the residue using a laser scanner when the dresser head and the conditioning disk are in refuge position..
A wafer processing method includes preparing a holding table having a blade clearance portion formed therein so as to correspond to a notch of a wafer, holding the wafer by the holding table so as to make the notch of the wafer correspond to the blade clearance portion of the holding table, reducing the diameter of the wafer by cutting the wafer by a cutting blade along an outer peripheral edge of the wafer in a state in which an end of the cutting blade is positioned below the holding surface of the holding table and therefore removing at least a part of the notch portion, and forming a second notch in the wafer by cutting the wafer in a thickness direction by the cutting blade along the blade clearance portion of the holding table..
Methods of dicing semiconductor wafers are described.
In an example, a method of dicing a semiconductor wafer having integrated circuits thereon involves forming a mask above the semiconductor wafer, the mask composed of a layer covering and protecting the integrated circuits.
The mask is then patterned with a multiple pass laser scribing process to provide a patterned mask with gaps exposing regions of the semiconductor wafer between the integrated circuits, the multiple pass laser scribing process including a first pass along a first edge scribing path, a second pass along a center scribing path, a third pass along a second edge scribing path, a fourth pass along the second edge scribing path, a fifth pass along the center scribing path, and a sixth pass along the first edge scribing path.
The semiconductor wafer is then plasma etched through the gaps in the patterned mask to singulate the integrated circuits..
Embodiments of semiconductor structures for wafer flatness control and methods for using and forming the same are disclosed.
In an example, a model indicative of a flatness difference of a wafer between a first direction and a second direction is obtained.
The flatness difference is associated with one of a plurality of fabrication stages of a plurality of semiconductor devices on a front side of the wafer.
A compensation pattern is determined for reducing the flatness difference based on the model.
At the one of the plurality of the fabrication stages, a compensation structure is formed on a backside opposite to the front side of the wafer based on the compensation pattern to reduce the flatness difference..
A system and method for performing a wet etching process is disclosed.
The system includes multiple processing stations accessible by a transfer device, including a measuring station to optically measure the thickness of a wafer before and after each etching steps in the process.
The system also includes a controller to analyze the thickness measurements in view of a target wafer profile and generate an etch recipe, dynamically and in real time, for each etching step.
In addition, the process controller can cause a single wafer wet etching station to etch the wafer according to the generated etching recipes.
In addition, the system can, based on the pre and post-etch thickness measurements and target etch profile, generate and/or refine the etch recipes..
A wafer holder and a wafer transfer apparatus, system and method are disclosed.
The wafer holder is mounted onto the wafer transfer apparatus and includes a holder body and a sucker.
The holder body defines a first opening, while the sucker includes a first skirt.
The first skirt is located on one side of the holder body and connected to the first opening.
A groove is formed at a joint between the first skirt and the first opening.
The groove is located at an outer side of the first skirt, and is able to relief stresses produced at a base portion of the sucker during deformation of the first skirt..
Provided are a wafer heating and holding mechanism for a rotary table, a wafer heating method for a rotary table, and a wafer rotating and holding device with which a wafer put on a rotary table can be heated while being rotated stably under a state in which an in-plane temperature distribution of the wafer is maintained.
The wafer heating and holding mechanism for a rotary table of a wafer rotating and holding device comprises: a rotary shaft; a rotary table placed on an end of the rotary shaft and configured to hold a wafer on an upper surface of the rotary table; a drive motor configured to supply motive power to the rotary shaft; and a heater provided above the rotary table and below the wafer while avoiding contact with the wafer to heat the wafer..
Semiconductor processing apparatuses and methods are provided in which an electrostatic discharge (ESD) prevention layer is utilized to prevent or reduce ESD events from occurring between a semiconductor wafer and one or more components of the apparatuses.
In some embodiments, a semiconductor processing apparatus includes a wafer handling structure that is configured to support a semiconductor wafer during processing of the semiconductor wafer.
The apparatus further includes an ESD prevention layer on the wafer handling structure.
The ESD prevention layer includes a first material and a second material, and the second material has an electrical conductivity that is greater than an electrical conductivity of the first material..
A method for forming self-aligned contacts includes patterning a mask between fin regions of a semiconductor device, etching a cut region through a first dielectric layer between the fin regions down to a substrate and filling the cut region with a first material, which is selectively etchable relative to the first dielectric layer.
The first dielectric layer is isotropically etched to reveal source and drain regions in the fin regions to form trenches in the first material where the source and drain regions are accessible.
The isotropic etching is super selective to remove the first dielectric layer relative to the first material and relative to gate structures disposed between the source and drain regions.
Metal is deposited in the trenches to form silicide contacts to the source and drain regions..
Examples described herein provide for methods for semiconductor processing for forming source/drain regions of transistors.
An example is a method for semiconductor processing.
An etch stop liner is formed in a semiconductor substrate.
Forming the etch stop liner includes implanting etch selectivity dopants into the semiconductor substrate.
The etch selectivity dopants form at least part of the etch stop liner.
A source/drain cavity is formed in the semiconductor substrate.
Forming the source/drain cavity includes etching the etch stop liner.
Etching the etch stop liner selectively etches the etch stop liner relative to a material of the semiconductor substrate.
A source/drain region is epitaxially grown in the source/drain cavity..
An integrated circuit memory device includes a vertical stack structure containing an interlayer insulating layer and a gate electrode, on a substrate.
A blocking dielectric region is provided on a sidewall of an opening in the stack structure.
A lateral impurity region is provided, which extends between the blocking dielectric region and the interlayer insulating layer and between the blocking dielectric region and the gate electrode.
A lower impurity region is also provided, which extends between the blocking dielectric region and the substrate..
A method for forming the semiconductor device that includes forming an etch mask covering a drain side of the gate structure and the silicon containing fin structure; etching a source side of the silicon containing fin structure adjacent to the channel region; and forming a germanium containing semiconductor material on an etched sidewall of the silicon containing fin structure adjacent to the channel region.
Germanium from the germanium containing semiconductor material is diffused into the channel region to provide a graded silicon germanium region in the channel region having germanium present at a highest concentration in the channel region at the source end of the channel region and a germanium deficient concentration at the drain end of the channel region..
Non-planar semiconductor devices having hybrid geometry-based active regions are described.
For example, a semiconductor device includes a hybrid channel region including a nanowire portion disposed above an omega-FET portion disposed above a fin-FET portion.
A gate stack is disposed on exposed surfaces of the hybrid channel region.
The gate stack includes a gate dielectric layer and a gate electrode disposed on the gate dielectric layer.
Source and drain regions are disposed on either side of the hybrid channel region..
A substrate structure includes a set of nanosheet layers stacked upon a substrate.
The substrate structure includes a p-channel region and an n-channel region.
The substrate structure further includes divots within the p-channel region and the n-channel region.
A first liner is formed within the divots of the n-channel region.
The first liner is formed of a material having a positive charge.
A second liner is formed within the divots of the p-channel region.
The second liner is formed of a material having a negative charge.
A p-type epitaxy is deposited in the p-channel region to form first air gap spacers of the divots in the p-channel region.
An n-type epitaxy is deposited in the n-channel region to form second air gap spacers of the divots in the n-channel region..
A semiconductor device includes: an isolation insulating layer; fin structures protruding from the isolation insulating layer; gate structures, each having a metal gate and a cap insulating layer disposed over the metal gate; a first source/drain epitaxial layer and a second source/drain epitaxial layer disposed between two adjacent gate structures; and a first conductive contact disposed on the first source/drain epitaxial layer, and a second conductive contact disposed on the second source/drain epitaxial layer; a separation isolation region disposed between the first and second conductive contact; and an insulating layer disposed between the separation isolation region and the isolation insulating layer.
The separation isolation region is made of a different material than the insulating layer..
A method for making a semiconductor includes patterning a first transistor having one or more gate stacks on a first source-drain area and second transistor comprising one or more gate stacks on a second source-drain area, forming dielectric spacers on gate stack side walls, depositing a first nitride liner on the first and second transistors.
The method also includes masking the second transistor and etching to remove the first nitride material and the spacer from the first source-drain area and growing a first epitaxial layer on the first source-drain area by an epitaxial growth process.
The method also includes depositing a second nitride liner on the first and second transistors.
The method also includes masking the first transistor, and etching to remove the second nitride material from the second source-drain area and growing a second epitaxial layer on the second source-drain area by an epitaxial growth process..
A placing table on an embodiment includes a supporting member and a base.
The supporting member includes a placing region provided with a heater, and an outer peripheral region surrounding the placing region.
The base includes a first region supporting the placing region thereon, and a second region surrounding the first region.
In the second region, through holes are formed.
Wirings electrically connected to the heater passes through the through holes of the second region..
This invention discloses a DRAM cell includes an asymmetric transistor coupled to a capacitor.
The asymmetric transistor includes a drain region extending upward from an isolator region; a gate region extends upward from a gate dielectric or the isolator; a source region of asymmetric transistor extends upward from a first portion of an isolating layer.
The upward extending directions of the drain region, the gate region, and the source region are perpendicular or substantially perpendicular to an original silicon surface.
Moreover, the capacitor is partially formed in a concave and the isolating layer is positioned in the concave.
The capacitor extends upward from a second portion of the isolating layer.
The upward extending directions of the upright portion of the capacitor electrode, the third portion of the insulating layer and the counter electrode are perpendicular or substantially perpendicular to the original silicon surface..
A transistor comprises a substrate comprising a Group III/V compound semiconductor material having a cubic crystalline phase structure positioned on a hexagonal crystalline phase layer having a first region and a second region, the cubic crystalline phase structure being positioned between the first region and the second region of the hexagonal crystalline phase layer.
A source region and a drain region are both positioned in the Group III/V compound semiconductor material.
A channel region is in the Group III/V compound semiconductor material.
A gate is over the channel region.
An optional backside contact can also be formed.
A source contact and electrode are positioned to provide electrical contact to the source region.
A drain contact and electrode are positioned to provide electrical contact to the drain region.
Methods of forming transistors are also disclosed..
A semiconductor device includes a fin structure, first and second gate structures, a source/drain region, a source/drain contact layer and a separation layer.
The fin structure protrudes from an isolation insulating layer disposed over a substrate and extends in a first direction.
The first and second gate structures are formed over the fin structure and extend in a second direction crossing the first direction.
The source/drain region is disposed between the first and second gate structures.
The interlayer insulating layer is disposed over the fin structure, the first and second gate structures and the source/drain region.
The first source/drain contact layer is disposed on the first source/drain region.
The separation layer is disposed adjacent to the first source/drain contact layer.
Ends of the first and second gate structures and an end of the source drain contact layer are in contact with a same face of the separation layer..
A semiconductor device includes a fin region with long and short sides, a first field insulating layer including a top surface lower than that of the fin region and adjacent to a side surface of the short side of the fin region, a second field insulating layer including a top surface lower than that of the fin region and adjacent to a side surface of the long side of the fin region, an etch barrier pattern on the first field insulating layer, a first gate on the fin region and the second field insulating layer to face a top surface of the fin region and side surfaces of the long sides of the fin region.
A second gate is on the etch barrier pattern overlapping the first field insulating layer.
A source/drain region is between the first gate and the second gate, in contact with the etch barrier pattern..
A semiconductor device and a fabrication method are provided.
The fabrication method includes providing a base substrate including a first region for forming a first transistor and a second region for forming a second transistor, the first transistor having a working current less than the second transistor.
The fabrication method further includes forming a gate electrode layer on the base substrate; etching the gate electrode layer to form a first gate electrode in the first region; after forming the first gate electrode, etching the gate electrode layer to form a second gate electrode in the second region, with the second gate electrode having an undercut structure; forming a first source/drain doped region in the base substrate on both sides of the first gate electrode and forming a second source/drain region in the base substrate on both sides of the second gate electrode..
According to an exemplary embodiment, a method of forming a vertical structure is provided.
The method includes the following operations: providing a substrate; providing the vertical structure having a source, a channel, and a drain over the substrate; shrinking the source and the channel by oxidation; forming a metal layer over the drain of the vertical structure; and annealing the metal layer to form a silicide over the drain of the vertical structure..
A semiconductor device includes channel region, first and second two-dimensional metallic contacts, a gate structure, and first and second metal contacts.
The channel region includes a two-dimensional semiconductor material.
The first two-dimensional metallic contact is disposed at a side of the channel region and includes a two-dimensional metallic material.
The second two-dimensional metallic contact is disposed at an opposite side of the channel region and includes the two-dimensional metallic material.
The gate structure is disposed on the channel region in between the first and second two-dimensional metallic contacts.
The first metal contact is disposed at an opposite side of the first two-dimensional metallic contact with respect to the channel region.
The second metal contact is disposed at an opposite side of the second two-dimensional metallic contact with respect to the channel region.
The first and second two-dimensional metallic contacts contact sideways the channel region to form lateral semiconductor-metallic junctions..
Structures for a heterojunction bipolar transistor and methods of fabricating such structures.
A hardmask is formed that includes an opening over a first portion of a substrate in a first device region and a shape over a second portion of the substrate in a second device region.
An oxidized region in the first portion of the substrate while the shape blocks oxidation of the second portion of the substrate.
The oxidized region is subsequently removed from the first portion of the substrate to define a recess.
A first base and a first emitter of a first heterojunction bipolar transistor are formed over the first portion of the substrate in the first device region, and a second base and a second emitter of a second heterojunction bipolar transistor are formed in the recess over the second portion of the substrate in the second device region..
Structures and formation methods of a semiconductor device structure are provided.
The semiconductor device structure includes a substrate.
The substrate includes a first semiconductor layer, a second semiconductor layer, and an insulating layer between the first semiconductor layer and the second semiconductor layer.
The semiconductor device structure also includes a gate stack over the substrate.
The semiconductor device structure further includes source and drain structures in the second semiconductor layer of the substrate.
The source and drain structures are on opposite sides of the gate stack.
In addition, the semiconductor device structure includes a first isolation feature in the substrate.
The first isolation feature includes an insulation material and surrounds the source and drain structures.
The semiconductor device structure also includes a second isolation feature in the first isolation feature.
The second isolation feature includes a metal material and surrounds the source and drain structures..
Provided is a method of manufacturing a semiconductor device including providing a semiconductor substrate, and forming an epitaxial stack on the semiconductor substrate.
The epitaxial stack comprises a plurality of first epitaxial layers interposed by a plurality of second epitaxial layers.
The method further includes patterning the epitaxial stack and the semiconductor substrate to form a semiconductor fin, recessing a portion of the semiconductor fin to form source/drain spaces; and laterally removing portions of the plurality of first epitaxial layers exposed by the source/drain spaces to form a plurality of cavities.
The method further includes forming inner spacers in the plurality of cavities, performing a treatment process to remove an inner spacer residue in the source/drain spaces, forming S/D features in the source/drain spaces, and forming a gate structure engaging the semiconductor fin..
A substrate processing apparatus includes: a holder that holds a substrate; a liquid supply that sequentially supplies a first processing liquid and a second processing liquid to a main surface of the substrate held by the holder; a friction body that comes into contact with and rub the main surface of the substrate during the supply of the first processing liquid and the second processing liquid; a mover that moves a contact position of the friction body in a first axial direction and a second axial direction; and a controller that controls the liquid supply and the mover to move the contact position of the friction body in one-side direction of the first axial direction during the supply of the first processing liquid, and move the contact position of the friction body in the other-side direction of the first axial direction during the supply of the second processing liquid..
An etching apparatus includes a substrate holder configured to hold a substrate; a rotation driver configured to rotate the substrate holder around a rotation axis; a liquid discharge unit configured to discharge an etching solution to a peripheral portion of the substrate; and a controller configured to control an operation of the etching apparatus by controlling at least the rotation driver and the liquid discharge unit.
The controller controls at least one of a rotational velocity of the substrate, a discharge velocity of the etching solution from the liquid discharge unit or a discharge direction of the etching solution from the liquid discharge unit to etch the substrate under immediate deviation conditions in which the etching solution is deviated from the substrate immediately after the etching solution from the liquid discharge unit lands at a liquid landing point in the peripheral portion of the substrate..
A processing liquid supplying apparatus including a reservoir containing an additive to be added to a liquid flowing through a passage connected at one end to a liquid supply source and at another end to a processing apparatus; an injection pump for injecting the additive into the passage; a weight measuring unit for measuring the weight of the reservoir and converting the weight into an electrical signal at a predetermined interval while the liquid flows in the passage and the additive is injected; a deciding unit for receiving the electrical signal from the weight measuring unit and deciding whether the measured value of the weight of the reservoir is being reduced at a predetermined rate; and a warning unit for issuing a warning that injection is improper when it is decided by the deciding unit that the measured value of the weight is not being reduced at the predetermined rate..
A substrate liquid processing apparatus includes a placing unit which places thereon a substrate; a liquid processing unit which processes the substrate by immersing the substrate in a processing liquid with a posture in which a plate surface of the substrate is perpendicular to a horizontal direction; a transfer unit which transfers the substrate between the placing unit and the liquid processing unit; and a rotating unit which rotates the substrate, after being subjected to a first processing by the liquid processing unit, around an axis perpendicular to the plate surface, and in a direction different from that when the first processing is performed.
Further, the transfer unit transfers the substrate, after being subjected to the first processing, to the rotating unit and transfers the rotated substrate to the liquid processing unit.
The liquid processing unit performs a second processing by immersing the rotated substrate in the processing liquid..
A substrate processing apparatus includes: a circulation pipe which defines a circulation passage through which a chemical liquid within a chemical-liquid tank is circulated; a supply pipe which guides the chemical liquid from the circulation pipe to a chemical-liquid nozzle; a supply valve which is switched between an open state in which the chemical liquid flowing through the supply pipe toward the chemical-liquid nozzle is passed and a closed state in which the supply of the chemical liquid from the supply pipe to the chemical-liquid nozzle is stopped; a recovery pipe which guides the chemical liquid from a cup to the chemical-liquid tank; and a branch pipe which guides the chemical liquid within the circulation pipe to the recovery pipe..
A chemical liquid treatment apparatus includes processing chambers; a chemical liquid feeding unit configured to cyclically feed a chemical liquid into the processing chambers; and a modifying unit.
The modifying unit, when using a chemical liquid in which an effect thereof varies with a chemical liquid discharge time, is configured to calculate a variation of the effect of the chemical liquid based on the chemical liquid discharge time and is configured to modify the chemical liquid discharge time for each of the processing chambers based on the calculated variation of the effect of the chemical liquid and a cumulative time of the chemical liquid discharge time..
A processing liquid used in a substrate liquid processing apparatus can be supplied in a constant amount with high accuracy.
A substrate liquid processing apparatus A1 includes a storage line 61 configured to store a processing liquid therein; an introduction line 62 configured to introduce the processing liquid into the storage line 61; a discharge line 63 configured to discharge the processing liquid from the storage line 61; and a gas supply unit 65 configured to perform a strickling of the processing liquid by jetting a gas to a surface of the processing liquid stored in the storage line 61..
A cooling system includes a heat exchange unit; a supply line configured to send a coolant to the heat exchange unit; a drain line configured to send the coolant drained from the heat exchange unit; a first to a nth gas-liquid separating units connected in series to a gas line in which a gas of the coolant flows; a first to a nth cooling lines extended via the first to the nth gas-liquid separating units, respectively.
Both ends of the first cooling line are connected to a cooling device.
The second to the nth cooling lines are provided between the drain line and a first to a (n−1)th liquid lines via the second to the nth gas-liquid separating units, respectively.
The first to the nth gas-liquid separating units are respectively connected to liquid lines, and the liquid lines communicate with the supply line connected to the heat exchange unit..
A substrate processing apparatus for processing a substrate to manufacture a semiconductor device, includes: a mounting table on which a substrate is mounted; a first liquid supply part that supplies a first liquid to form a polymer film having a urea bond on the substrate mounted on the mounting table; a second liquid supply part that supplies a second liquid reacting with the first liquid; and a nozzle part provided at an end portion of a liquid flow path where the first liquid supplied from the first liquid supply part and the second liquid supplied from the second liquid supply part are joined with each other to obtain a mixed solution, and configured to supply the mixed solution to the substrate to form the polymer film on a surface of the substrate, wherein the polymer film is temporarily used for manufacturing the semiconductor device and is subsequently removed by depolymerization..
A substrate treatment method is provided, including: holding a substrate on a substrate holding unit; rotating the substrate holding unit to rotate the substrate; raising a cup member surrounding an outer periphery of the substrate holding unit to locate an upper end of the cup member in an upper end position higher than an upper surface of the substrate held on the substrate holding unit; discharging a treatment liquid from a discharge port of a nozzle located lower than the upper end position to an end portion of the upper surface of the substrate held on the substrate holding unit; an imaging process, acquiring captured images of an imaging region by a camera, wherein the imaging region contains the treatment liquid discharged from the discharge port and is seen from an imaging position above the substrate; and determining a discharge state of the treatment liquid based on the captured images..
An apparatus for processing wafer-shaped articles comprises a rotary chuck and a heating assembly that faces a wafer-shaped article when positioned on the rotary chuck.
A liquid dispenser positioned so as to dispense liquid onto a surface of a wafer-shaped article that faces away from the rotary chuck when positioned on the rotary chuck.
The heating assembly comprises an array of radiant heating elements distributed among at least five individually controllable groups.
The liquid dispenser comprises one or more dispensing orifices configured to move a discharge point from a more central region of the rotary chuck to a more peripheral region of the rotary chuck.
A controller controls power supplied to each of the at least five individually controllable groups of radiant heating elements based on a position of the discharge point of the liquid dispenser..
A liquid processing apparatus according to an embodiment includes a holding unit, a driving unit, a shaft, and a nozzle.
The driving unit rotates the substrate and the holding unit that horizontally holds the substrate.
The shaft is extended along an axial direction of a rotation axis.
The nozzle includes a base that is attached to an upper end of the shaft, and a liquid supply unit that is extended from the base to a radial-direction outer side of the substrate and includes discharge ports formed to discharge the liquid toward a lower surface of the substrate.
The shaft and the base are configured to include a discharge passage that is formed along the axial direction to discharge the liquid discharged toward the lower surface of the substrate.
The base includes a concave portion that is concave downward to cause the liquid to flow toward the discharge passage..
A control device is provided which, at a time of upper surface treatment for treating an upper surface of a substrate with a treating device, supplies a treating liquid from a treating liquid supply source and operates a first control valve to supply a gas at a first flow rate from a gas nozzle, while operating a rotary drive device to spin the substrate at a first rotational frequency, and at a time of drying treatment, after completion of the upper surface treatment, for drying the substrate by increasing the rotational frequency of the rotary drive device to spin the substrate at a second rotational frequency, operates the first control valve and second control valve to supply the gas at a higher flow rate than the first flow rate from the gas nozzle..
Various examples regarding substrate cleaning apparatus and methods, and related apparatus and method are disclosed.
According to one embodiment, provided is a substrate cleaning apparatus including: a substrate holding and rotating module; an elongated cleaning member configured to come into contact with the substrate while the substrate is held and rotated by the substrate holding and rotating module; and a first nozzle and a second nozzle, both of which are arranged on an identical side with respect to a longitudinal direction of the cleaning member, wherein the first nozzle is operably adjusted to supply liquid more forcefully than liquid from the second nozzle, and the first nozzle is arranged so that the liquid from the first nozzle is reached to a first area located closer to the first nozzle than the cleaning member in the substrate..
A processing apparatus includes: a holding unit that holds a workpiece; a processing mechanism that processes the workpiece held by the holding unit; a processing liquid supplying mechanism that supplies a processing liquid containing an oxidizing agent to at least the workpiece held by the holding unit at the time of processing the workpiece by the processing means; a processing waste liquid recovery section that recovers a processing waste liquid containing the processing liquid supplied from the processing liquid supplying mechanism to the workpiece; a discharge passage through which the processing waste liquid is discharged from the processing waste liquid recovery section to the outside of the processing apparatus; and a waste liquid treatment mechanism that is disposed in the discharge passage and that decomposes the processing liquid contained in the processing waste liquid while the processing waste liquid flows through the discharge passage..
When performing a liquid processing on a substrate W being rotated and removing a processing liquid by a cleaning liquid, a cleaning liquid nozzle 421 configured to discharge a cleaning liquid slantly with respect to a surface of the substrate W toward a downstream side of a rotational direction of the substrate W and a gas nozzle 411 configured to discharge a gas toward a position adjacent to a central portion side of the substrate W when viewed from a liquid arrival position R of the cleaning liquid are moved from the central portion side toward a peripheral portion side.
A rotation number of the substrate is varied such that rotation number in a period during which the liquid arrival position R moves in the second region becomes smaller than a maximum rotation number in a period during which the liquid arrival position moves in the first region..
Productivity can be improved.
A substrate processing method includes a processing liquid supplying process of supplying a processing liquid, which contains a volatile component and forms a film on a substrate, onto the substrate on which a pre-treatment, which requires atmosphere management or time management after the pre-treatment, is performed; and an accommodating process of accommodating, in a transfer container, the substrate on which the processing liquid is solidified or cured by volatilization of the volatile component..
Contamination of a bottom surface of a substrate caused by a processing liquid used for cleaning a top surface of the substrate can be suppressed.
After performing a liquid processing on the top surface of the substrate and a liquid processing on the bottom surface of the substrate in parallel while rotating the substrate by a substrate holding/rotating unit, when stopping the liquid processing on the top surface of the substrate and the liquid processing on the bottom surface of the substrate, a control unit 18 stops a supply of the processing liquid onto the top surface of the substrate by a first processing liquid supply device 73, and then, stops a supply of the processing liquid onto the bottom surface of the substrate by a second processing liquid supply device 71..
Disclosed are an apparatus and a method for liquid-treating a substrate.
The substrate treating apparatus includes a liquid supply unit configured to supply a treatment liquid in which a first liquid and a second liquid are mixed, onto the substrate unit, wherein the liquid supply unit includes a nozzle configured to discharge the treatment liquid, a first liquid supply line supplying the first liquid to the nozzle, and a second liquid supply supplying the second liquid to the nozzle, and the nozzle includes a body having a mixing space in which the first liquid and the second liquid are mixed and a buffer space extending from the mixing space, in the interior thereof, and a collision member located in the buffer space and configured to decrease a flow velocity of the treatment liquid supplied to the buffer space..
A method of forming a semiconductor device includes providing a starting structure including a substrate having thereon a plurality of gate regions alternately arranged with a plurality of source/drain (S/D) regions, wherein each of the gate regions includes a nanochannel structure having an intermediate portion surrounded by a replacement gate, and opposing end portions surrounded by respective gate spacers such that the nanochannel structure extends through the replacement gate and the gate spacers of the gate region.
Each of the S/D regions includes an S/D structure extending through the S/D region to connect nanochannel structures of first and second adjacent gate regions provided on opposing sides of the S/D region respectively.
The first adjacent gate region is converted into a single diffusion break including a dummy gate structure, and the second adjacent gate region is converted into an active gate including an active gate structure configured to create a current channel within the nanochannel structure of the second adjacent gate region..
The present disclosure describes a semiconductor device having metal boundary trench isolation with electrically conductive intermediate structures acting as a metal diffusion barrier.
The semiconductor structure includes a first fin structure and a second fin structure on a substrate, an insulating layer between the first and second fin structures, a gate dielectric layer on the insulating layer and the first and second fin structures, and a first work function stack and a second work function stack on the gate dielectric layer.
The first work function stack is over the first fin structure and a first portion of the insulating layer, and the second work function stack is over the second fin structure and a second portion of the insulating layer adjacent to the first portion.
The semiconductor structure further includes a conductive intermediate structure on the gate dielectric layer and between the first and second work function stacks..
A fin field effect transistor (FinFET) includes a fin extending from a substrate, where the fin includes a lower region, a mid region, and an upper region, the upper region having sidewalls that extend laterally beyond sidewalls of the mid region.
The FinFET also includes a gate stack disposed over a channel region of the fin, the gate stack including a gate dielectric, a gate electrode, and a gate spacer on either side of the gate stack.
A dielectric material is included that surrounds the lower region and the first interface.
A fin spacer is included which is disposed on the sidewalls of the mid region, the fin spacer tapering from a top surface of the dielectric material to the second interface, where the fin spacer is a distinct layer from the gate spacers.
The upper region may include epitaxial source/drain material..
A semiconductor device includes a substrate, a semiconductor fin, a gate electrode, a pair of gate spacers, a dielectric cap, and a hard mask layer.
The semiconductor fin extends upwardly from the substrate.
The gate electrode straddles the semiconductor fin.
The pair of gate spacers is on opposite sidewalls of the gate electrode.
The dielectric cap is atop the gate electrode and laterally between the pair of gate spacers.
The hard mask layer is atop the dielectric cap and laterally between the pair of gate spacers.
A bottommost position of the hard mask layer is not lower than a topmost position of the dielectric cap..
An apparatus includes a first source and a common drain and on opposite sides of a first gate surrounded by a first gate spacer, a second source and the common drain on opposite sides of a second gate surrounded by a second gate spacer, a first protection layer formed along a sidewall of the first gate spacer, wherein a top surface of the first protection layer has a first slope, a second protection layer formed along a sidewall of the second gate spacer, wherein a top surface of the second protection layer has a second slope, a lower drain contact between the first gate and the second gate and an upper drain contact over the lower drain contact and between the first gate and the second gate, wherein at least a portion of the upper drain contact is in contact with the first slope and the second slope..
Embodiments of the disclosure are in the field of advanced integrated circuit structure fabrication and, in particular, 10 nanometer node and smaller integrated circuit structure fabrication and the resulting structures.
In an example, an integrated circuit structure includes a fin.
An isolation structure surrounds a lower fin portion, the isolation structure comprising an insulating material having a top surface, and a semiconductor material on a portion of the top surface of the insulating material, wherein the semiconductor material is separated from the fin.
A gate dielectric layer is over the top of an upper fin portion and laterally adjacent the sidewalls of the upper fin portion, the gate dielectric layer further on the semiconductor material on the portion of the top surface of the insulating material.
A gate electrode is over the gate dielectric layer..
A method for forming a fin field effect transistor (FinFET) device structure is provided.
The FinFET device structure includes a substrate and a first fin structure and a second fin structure extending above the substrate.
The FinFET device structure also includes a first transistor formed on the first fin structure and a second transistor formed on the second fin structure.
The FinFET device structure further includes an inter-layer dielectric (ILD) structure formed in an end-to-end gap between the first transistor and the second transistor, and the end-to-end gap has a width in a range from about 20 nm to about 40 nm..
A semiconductor structure includes a substrate, at least one first gate structure, at least one first spacer, at least one source drain structure, and a conductive plug.
The first gate structure is present on the substrate.
The first spacer is present on at least one sidewall of the first gate structure.
The source drain structure is present adjacent to the first spacer.
The conductive plug is electrically connected to the source drain structure while leaving a gap between the conductive plug and the spacer..
A transistor includes a semiconductive fin having a channel portion, a gate stack over the channel portion of the semiconductive fin, source and drain structures on opposite sides of the gate stack and adjoining the semiconductive fin, and a sidewall structure extending along sidewalls of a body portion of the source structure.
The source structure has a curved top, and the source structure has a top portion protruding over a top of the sidewall structure..
A method of forming a gate structure, including forming one or more vertical fins on a substrate; forming a bottom spacer on the substrate surface adjacent to the one or more vertical fins; forming a gate structure on at least a portion of the sidewalls of the one or more vertical fins; forming a gauge layer on at least a portion of the bottom spacer, wherein the gauge layer covers at least a portion of the gate structure on the sidewalls of the one or more vertical fins; and removing a portion of the gauge layer on the bottom spacer..
A semiconductor device that includes a fin structure of a type III-V semiconductor material that is substantially free of defects, and has sidewalls that are substantially free of roughness caused by epitaxially growing the type III-V semiconductor material abutting a dielectric material.
The semiconductor device further includes a gate structure present on a channel portion of the fin structure; and a source region and a drain region present on opposing sides of the gate structure..
A semiconductor device including a gate structure present on at least two suspended channel structures, and a composite spacer present on sidewalls of the gate structure.
The composite spacer may include a cladding spacer present along a cap portion of the gate structure, and an inner spacer along the channel portion of the gate structure between adjacent channel semiconductor layers of the suspended channel structures.
The inner spacer may include a crescent shape with a substantially central seam..
A method for forming a semiconductor device includes: forming a gate structure over a fin, where the fin protrudes above a substrate; forming an opening in the gate structure; forming a first dielectric layer along sidewalls and a bottom of the opening, where the first dielectric layer is non-conformal, where the first dielectric layer has a first thickness proximate to an upper surface of the gate structure distal from the substrate, and has a second thickness proximate to the bottom of the opening, where the first thickness is larger than the second thickness; and forming a second dielectric layer over the first dielectric layer to fill the opening, where the first dielectric layer is formed of a first dielectric material, and the second dielectric layer is formed of a second dielectric material different from the first dielectric material..
A semiconductor device is provided.
The semiconductor device includes a substrate including an active pattern, a gate electrode extending in a first direction and crossing the active pattern which extends in a second direction, a separation structure crossing the active pattern and extending in the first direction, a first gate dielectric pattern disposed on a side surface of the gate electrode, a second gate dielectric pattern disposed on a side surface of the separation structure, and a gate capping pattern covering a top surface of the gate electrode.
A level of a top surface of the separation structure is higher than a level of a top surface of the gate capping pattern..
A FinFET and methods for forming a FinFET are disclosed.
A method includes forming a semiconductor fin on a substrate, implanting the semiconductor fin with dopants, and forming a capping layer on a top surface and sidewalls of the semiconductor fin.
The method further includes forming a dielectric on the capping layer, and forming a gate electrode on the dielectric..
An integrated semiconductor device having a substrate and a vertical field-effect transistor (FET) disposed on the substrate.
The vertical FET includes a fin and a bottom spacer.
The bottom spacer further includes a first spacer layer and a second spacer layer formed on top of the first spacer layer.
The bottom spacer provides for a symmetrical straight alignment at a bottom junction between the bottom spacer and the fin..
Various embodiments of the present disclosure are directed towards a method for forming an integrated circuit (IC).
The method includes forming a gate electrode and a gate dielectric stacked over a substrate.
A sidewall spacer layer is deposited over the substrate and the gate electrode, in which the sidewall spacer layer lines sidewalls of the gate electrode.
An etching back is performed on the sidewall spacer layer to form a sidewall spacer on the sidewalls of the gate electrode.
The etching back is performed at an etch rate less than about 8 angstroms/minute using an etchant comprising hydrogen fluoride.
Further, the substrate is doped with the sidewall spacer and the gate electrode in place to form a pair of source/drain regions respectively on opposite sides of the gate electrode..
In a method of manufacturing a semiconductor device including a Fin FET, a fin structure extending in a first direction is formed over a substrate.
An isolation insulating layer is formed over the substrate so that an upper portion of the fin structure is exposed from the isolation insulating layer.
A gate structure extending in a second direction crossing the first direction is formed over a part of the fin structure.
A fin mask layer is formed on sidewalls of a source/drain region of the fin structure.
The source/drain region of the fin structure is recessed.
An epitaxial source/drain structure is formed over the recessed fin structure.
In the recessing the source/drain region of the fin structure, a plasma process combining etching and deposition processes is used to form a recess having a rounded corner shape in a cross section along the second direction..
A method of forming a semiconductor device that includes forming a fin structure from a bulk semiconductor substrate and forming an isolation region contacting a lower portion of a sidewall of the fin structure, wherein an upper portion of the sidewall of the fin structure is exposed.
A sacrificial spacer is formed on the upper portion of the sidewall of the fin structure.
The isolation regions are recessed to provide an exposed section of the sidewall of the fin structure.
A doped semiconductor material is formed on the exposed section of the lower portion of the sidewall of the fin structure.
Dopant is diffused from the doped semiconductor material to a base portion of the fin structure..
A semiconductor structure and a method of fabricating the semiconductor structure are provided.
The semiconductor structure includes a substrate; a metal gate structure on the substrate; and a spacer next to the metal gate structure having a skirting part extending into the metal gate structure and contacting the substrate.
The metal gate structure includes a high-k dielectric layer and a metal gate electrode on the high-k dielectric layer..
